So let's start working on this app then.
And for this I have a brand new app here.
You'll find it attached in case you want to build up on this same starting app.
This simple app gives us this year a very ugly app where we have some text which is overlapped by the
status bar by the notch.
Now we could fix this with safe area view as you learned earlier but will not need to because we'll
not keep this content anyways and we'll use a third party library that allows us to easily navigate
between different screens and get nice animations along the way.
So we don't have to take care about that.
And this third party library will also managed to notch on the device and give us this safe area out
of the box.
Now before we add that third party library let's start writing some code though because we can only
navigate between screens if we have multiple screens.
So for that I'll create and use screens folder here and I'll also already create a components folder.
The difference will be that in the screens folder we have these react components which we then use as
well.
Full screen screens I guess and in the components folder instead will have the components for use on
our screens.
So for example when we have that grade of meal categories of food categories then our great item would
be a component d And higher grids the entire food categories screen however would be well a screen.
And I guess this makes sense now as sketched as laid out in this app will need a couple of screens and
I'll treat all the files already and we'll fill them with life for all this module of course we'll need
the categories screen and I'll name to follow categories screen to make it really clear what's inside
there.
This is the screen where we can select a category like Italian German American so where we can select
a food category so we'll add content that reflects this will add such a grid on this screen in this
screen component later.
Now once we selected a category we will see a list of meals that fits into this category and I'll name
this screen which will then see which will navigate to category meals screen because this is the screen
that loads the meals for a chosen category.
So that's a no screen we need and another screen will be able to navigate to.
Now we also will need a favorites screen which is the screen that holds all our favorite recipes our
favorite meals and we'll all need a meal detailed screen that's the screen we see if we tap on a single
meal inside of a chosen category or on the favorite screen distance shows us the ingredients and the
detailed steps for this meal.
Now and last but not least as laid out we'll need a filters screen and this filters screen is the screen
that allows us to set well filters like vegan food so that we only see recipes which are vegan or vegetarian
or gluten free or lactose free.
These will be the four categories all happiness app so these are the screens that will add components
as we need them and not add all the files in advance.
And with that we have the well very very very basic setup we need here though of course all our screens
are totally empty now we'll populate them with more live step by step but I at least want to set up
a basic component in each of these screens.
So I'll start in the categories screen and of course we need to import react from react there because
we'll build a react component and we'll also import something from React Native because obviously we'll
build a react component here that uses some React Native components to be precise.
I will start simple here and import a view in a text from reactive and then create my component the
categories screen in this case which takes props or which might receive props at least because it's
a normal react component after all and where I will export this as my default component I'll also add
a stall sheet because chances are we'll need this and if we don't we can still delete it later.
So I'll set up my styles here with style.
She'd create like this.
So that's a very basic react component doesn't render anything though.
So inside of the component function here we'll have to return something and that something is some ASX
code where I want to render a view and in there a text and here I say the categories screen.
Now I'll also give that view some style where I say styles dot screen with a very basic screen layout
or a screen styling here where at flex to one and then justify content to center and a line items to
center and as you learned this will do one thing.
It will center the content on the screen so it will center this text on the screen Indian.
This is the base component and I'll copy that content into all of our screens.
And of course this is not the final content we'll have there just some dummy content so that we can
start navigating between some of these screens and see something.
So here we have a category meal screen that's this component here and that step for what we need to
export here and here I will therefore say that category meal screen like this now I'll also add this
to the favorites screen and renamed as two favorites screen.
And of course they are for export.
Favorite screen here.
And then here I can say the favorites screen.
Copy that into the filters screen and do the same thing there.
Still filters screen.
I renamed it and I export at this and also say that filters screen here in our text.
And last but not least this is the meal detailed screen.
So here we have to meal detail screen.
Also name at meal detailed screen here and export the meal detailed screen.
So with that we got that all set up in these screens.
Now we're almost done with all the preparation.
I just want to add some special fonts to this app and thereafter will dive right into adding some navigation.